= Desserts =

== DONE Biscuit cuiller ==

(Patisserie, Leçons pas-à-pas) : 12min environ 3 blanc 75g sucre 55g farine37g fécule 4 jaunes

== RETRY Biscuit de Savoie ==

[https://www.meilleurduchef.com/cgi/mdc/l/fr/recette/biscuit-savoie.html meilleur du chef]) : cuire vraiment plus longtemps en bas du four. Bien beurrer et fariner.

== DONE [https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/blackout-cake Blackout cake] ==

=== Ingredients ===

* Cake
** Unsalted butter, room temperature (for pans)
** 75g Dutch-processed cocoa powder, plus more for pans
** 180g all-purpose flour
** 1.5 teaspoons baking soda
** 0.75 teaspoon baking powder
** 1 large egg, room temperature
** 1 large egg yolk, room temperature
** 306g (packed) dark brown sugar
** 170g sour cream, room temperature
** 5 tablespoons vegetable oil
** 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
** 0.75 teaspoon kosher salt
* Pudding and Assembly
** 33g Dutch-processed cocoa powder
** 5 tablespoons cornstarch
** 283g heavy cream
** 4 large egg yolks, beaten to blend
** 283g whole milk
** 140g dark brown sugar
** 0.75 teaspoon kosher salt
** 114g milk chocolate, chopped
** 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
* Frosting
** 227 cup heavy cream
** 3 tablespoons golden syrup (such as Lyle’s Golden Syrup)
** 0.1 teaspoon kosher salt
** 340g bittersweet chocolate, chopped
** 170g sour cream, room temperature
** 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature

=== Instructions ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Cake</p>
<p>Arrange a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350°. Line two 8x2&quot;-deep round cake pans with parchment paper. Grease with butter, then dust with cocoa powder, tapping out excess.</p>
<p>Sift flour, baking soda, baking powder, and remaining ¾ cup cocoa powder into a medium bowl, then whisk to combine. Whisk egg, egg yolk, brown sugar, sour cream, oil, vanilla, salt, and ¾ cup hot water in a large bowl until smooth. Whisk in dry ingredients until just combined.</p>
<p>Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 25–35 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack; let cake cool completely in pan. Invert onto a plate, then invert again.</p>
<p>Do Ahead: Cake can be baked 2 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.</p></li>
<li><p>Pudding and Assembly</p>
<p>Whisk cocoa powder and cornstarch in a large saucepan. Whisk in cream until smooth and no lumps remain. Add egg yolks, milk, brown sugar, and salt; whisk to combine. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, whisking occasionally, then reduce heat to low. Continue to cook, whisking, until thick and smooth, 1–2 minutes.</p>
<p>Remove from heat and add chocolate and vanilla, stirring until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a medium bowl. Cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly onto surface of hot pudding to prevent a skin from forming. Chill until cold, at least 2 hours.</p>
<p>Using a serrated knife and sawing in long, even strokes, carefully halve cakes lengthwise. Set aside the 3 prettiest layers for assembly. Crumble remaining layer with your fingers into fine crumbs (or push through a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet). Place 1 layer, cut side up, on a platter or cake stand.</p>
<p>Remove plastic from chilled pudding and vigorously whisk until smooth. Using a rubber spatula, spread half of pudding over cake layer on stand, spreading to edges. Top with another cake layer, cut side down, and spread remaining pudding over cake. Top with third cake layer cut side down (leave top bare). Chill cake 1 hour and up to 8 to let pudding firm up.</p>
<p>Do Ahead: Pudding can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.</p></li>
<li><p>Frosting</p>
<p>Bring cream, syrup, and salt to a boil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Remove from heat and stir in chocolate, sour cream, and butter. Let sit, stirring occasionally, until chocolate and butter are melted and mixture is smooth and no streaks of white remain. Transfer to a medium bowl. Let frosting sit at room temperature, stirring every 30 minutes or so, until thickened and spreadable (it will look like a broken chocolate sauce at first, but magically, about 1½ hours later, it will start to thicken). Stir until smooth. (If your kitchen is warmer than 72°, chill frosting 5 minutes. Stir to combine cooler outer edges with warmer center, then chill another 5 minutes. It should be the consistency of sour cream; if not, chill another 5 minutes and stir.)</p>
<p>Spread frosting all over top and sides of chilled cake. The frosting on top should be as smooth and level as possible, but it’s okay if the sides look messy; the crumbs will hide any mistakes you make.</p>
<p>Place cake stand on a sheet tray. Take a handful of cake crumbs and press into sides of cake. Repeat, turning cake as you go, to completely cover sides in crumbs. Sprinkle crumbs on outside edges of top layer.</p>
<p>Do Ahead: Cake can be assembled 1 day ahead. Chill uncovered.</p></li></ol>

=== Notes : ===

Avec un cercle 20cm, on peut faire un gâteau. 50min de cuisson à 190. On peut couper le bord supérieur pour avoir quelques miettes puis 3 tranches. Un peu trop de glacage et pudding (10%) Résultat OK

== RETRY Bounty ==

[http://www.750g.com/bounty-maison-r97803.htm 750g]) : prendre du bon chocolat

* noix de coco
* lait concentré sucré
* chocolat noir

== RETRY Brioche ==

=== [[<nowiki/>http://www.enviedebienmanger.fr/fiche-recette/recette-brioche-pur-beurre)][Enviedebienmanger ===

]] Bonne consistance et bon aspect. Attention, 30min est un maximum.

* 250 g de beurre gastronomique (+30 g pour beurrer les moules)
* 10 cl de lait entier
* 500 g de farine T45
* 18 g de levure fraîche
* 100 g de sucre
* 4 oeufs
* 1 jaune d'oeuf
* 12 g de sel (+ 1 pincée)

=== Au levain ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Ingredients</p>
<ul>
<li>225 grammes de levain actif</li>
<li>500 grammes de farine T45</li>
<li>110 grammes de cassonade sucre blond de canne</li>
<li>8 grammes de sel</li>
<li>3 gros oeufs</li>
<li>200 grammes de beurre doux mou</li>
<li>lait ~50g</li></ul>
</li>
<li><p>Notes</p>
<p>50min de cuisson à 180° 5h de pousse le lendemain Brioche moelleuse et aérée mais goût au levain trop fort Après avoir regardé d'autres recettes : =&gt; Augmenter le ratio farine/levain à 2/1 (au lieu de 0.5) pour le &quot;starter&quot; Exemple https://homegrownhappiness.co.nz/sourdough-brioche/</p></li></ol>

== RETRY Brownie ==

=== https://tasty.co/recipe/ultimate-brownies ===

** -33% en sucre ** café en poudre ok ** problème de cuisson : centre pas assez cuit. Brownie trop épais ? ** 2eme essai : avec les temps recommandé, au milieu du four, trop cuit ! (comme un cake, trop épais) ** =&gt; cuire moins+++ (30min), utiliser du chocolat à 70%, bien respecter la dose de cacao en poudre, bien battre++

=== LOVEIT Serious eats ===

https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2018/02/bravetart-glossy-fudge-brownies.html ** diviser quantité par 2 : brownie fin dans un plat à tarte. ** 20-25min à 180 degré (30min = un peu trop cuit). Cuisson homogène

12 ounces unsalted butter (about 3 sticks; 340g) 6 ounces finely chopped dark chocolate, about 72% (about 1 cup; 170g) 16 ounces white sugar (about 2 1/4 cups; 450g) 2 ounces light brown sugar (about 1/4 cup, packed; 55g) 1 3/4 teaspoons (4g) Diamond Crystal kosher salt; for table salt, use about half as much by volume or the same weight 6 large eggs, straight from the fridge (about 10 1/2 ounces; 295g) 1/2 ounce vanilla extract (about 1 tablespoon; 15g) 1 teaspoon instant espresso powder, such as Medaglia d’Oro (optional) 4 1/2 ounces all-purpose flour, such as Gold Medal (about 1 cup, spooned; 125g) 4 ounces Dutch-process cocoa powder, such as Cacao Barry Extra Brute (about 1 1/3 cups, spooned; 115g)

Directions

* différences entre les 2 : un peu plus de beurre pour SE, un peu plus de chocolat (normal + poudre) pour tasty

== RETRY Carrot cake ==

https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2017/10/carrot-cake-recipe.html

* un peu trop trop humide
* glacage non fait (version rapide = beurre + cream cheese + sucre glace)

== RETRY Cheesecake japonais ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 3 tablespoons/45 grams unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus more for greasing
* 5 large eggs, at room temperature
* 1 cup/225 grams cream cheese
* ½ cup/120 grams crème fraîche
* 1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
* 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
* ¼ teaspoon kosher salt
* ½ cup/100 grams plus 1 tablespoon superfine sugar
* ½ cup/65 grams cake flour
* 1 tablespoon confectioners’ sugar, for garnish

=== Directions ===

# Place rack in the center of the oven and heat to 400 degrees. Line bottom of an 8-by-3-inch round cake pan with parchment paper and butter only the bottom of the pan (so the cheesecake can rise). You can also use a springform pan; just wrap the bottom and sides with a double layer of foil, so the seams are covered.
# Separate eggs. Place whites in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment; place yolks in a small bowl.
# Place cream cheese in a large metal bowl or double boiler insert and place over a pot filled with 1 inch of simmering water. Stir until cream cheese is melted and smooth. Whisk in crème fraîche and 3 tablespoons butter until well combined and smooth. Remove from heat and whisk in lemon zest, vanilla and salt. Whisk in egg yolks and 3 tablespoons/40 grams superfine sugar. Sprinkle cake flour evenly over the top, then whisk it in.
# Beat the egg whites on medium speed until you start to see the wires of the whisk leave a trail in the whites. Slowly add the remaining 6 tablespoons superfine sugar, a tablespoon at a time while beating. Continue to beat until whites are fluffy and hold a soft peak when beaters are lifted. Gently fold about one-quarter of the whites into the yolk mixture to lighten it. Then gently fold in remaining whites, taking care not to deflate batter. Pour into prepared pan.
# Place cake pan in a roasting pan or other pan that is at least as deep as the cake pan; transfer to the oven. Fill the larger pan with enough hot tap water to come one-quarter of the way up the sides of the cake pan. (The cake is really light, so if you pour in too much water it may float.)
# Bake until top of the cake is golden and doesn’t give when you press it gently in the middle, 35 to 40 minutes.
# Turn off oven and crack the oven door so that it cools off. Leave cheesecake in the cooling-off oven for 2 hours so it cools slowly, which keeps the top from cracking.
# Lift cheesecake pan out of water and place on a wire rack. Let cool for another 2 hours. Cheesecake will deflate slightly.
# Run a knife around the edges of the cheesecake to loosen it from sides of pan. Remove sides of springform pan. If you used a regular cake pan, invert the cake onto a plate, lift off pan, peel off parchment, then invert it right side up on a serving plate.
# Chill cake for at least 2 hours before serving. Cake can be stored, well wrapped, for up to 4 days in the refrigerator. Sift confectioners’ sugar over top of cake just before serving.

=== Notes ===

* Temps de cuisson : 25-30min à 200° = sommet doré et gâteau plutôt ferme. Au goût semble OK
* Diminué les temps de repos : 1h30 au four, 1h dehors et mangé directement
* Levée pendant la cuisson (30%) mais retombé par la suite au niveau initial (voire moins sur un côté !)
* Un peu d'eau a l'air d'être rentrée sous des coins du gâteau

Conclusion

* Globablement bon mais attention à l'étanchéité ! =&gt; mieux mettre de papier alu
* pas de beurre sur les côté du moule a priori (possibilité de mettre du papier sulfurisé : cf https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=adXmM-eqwz8)
* bien mélanger la pâte (cf les 2vidéos)
* idéalement, on veux un dôme et que le gâteau ne dégonfle pas en dessous de la taille initiale. La recette du NYT mentionne qu'un dégonflement est inévitable
* Essayer d'autre méthode de cuisson pour avoir un gâteau qui &quot;tient&quot; mieux ? (plus longtemps et moins fort)

== RETRY Chocolate lavae cake ==

=== MEH Uncooked ===

https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019957-chocolate-lava-cake-for-two 13min au four : très coulant à l'intérieur mais un petit goûte de pâte non cuite. =&gt; recette de John Favreau avec une ganache congelée à l'intérieur avant de cuire

=== LOVEIT Frozen ganache ===

https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/bas-best-molten-chocolate-cake Meilleur que la version uncooked. 2/3 des quantités = sert environ 2 gros ramequins

== RETRY Cinnamon rolls ==

[https://www.bingingwithbabish.com/recipes/cinnamonrolls?rq=cinnamon de Babish]

* Le glacage est trop lourd (et seulement testé avec fromage frais + sucre) en soi !
* Soit réessayer la recette de babish (en petite quantités), soit simplement nature.

== RETRY Clafoutis aux pommes ==

[http://www.ptitecuisinedepauline.com/article-clafoutis-aux-pommes-122364862.html ptitecuisinedepauline])

* Avec un peu plus de farine, on a un clafoutis bien compact.

== RETRY Cornbread (salé) ==

[https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/11/southern-unsweetened-cornbread-recipe.html Seriouseats] Bien moelleux mais très mietteux. Probablement pas assez mélangé

== RETRY Crepes ==

=== Marmiton ===

https://www.marmiton.org/recettes/recette_pate-a-crepes-simple_27121.aspx 2.5 oeufs 250 g de farine 500g l de lait demi-écrémé 1.5 cuillères à soupe d'huile 1 cuillère à café de rhum =&gt; décent

=== LOVEIT Raymond Oliver ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Ingredients</p>
<p>Recette initiale : [[youtube:FUO2zmDnSe8|source]]</p>
<ul>
<li>200g farine</li>
<li>4 oeufs (suffisament pour absorper la farine)</li>
<li>250mL de lait</li>
<li>50g beurre</li>
<li>bière en quantité suffisante pour &quot;napper&quot; (400mL ??)</li>
<li>1 CS huile</li>
<li>4 CS de sucre</li>
<li>2 pincées de sel</li>
<li>rhum (2/3) + anis (1/3) pour un total de 125mL soit 80mL de rhumé et 40mL d'anis</li></ul>

<p>Mon 1er essai pour 11 crepes moyennement fines :</p>
<ul>
<li>1 pincées de sel</li>
<li>10cl lait</li>
<li>3 oeufs</li>
<li>3 CS sucre</li>
<li>vanille</li>
<li>30g beurre</li>
<li>130g farine</li>
<li>bière 15cl (le double dans la recette a priori) brune 6%</li>
<li>rhum 50g</li></ul>

<p>Au final : addictives, très molles, odeur du rhum, petit arrière-goût de bière après-coup</p>
<p>2eme essai avec les quantités initiales et ~250mL de bière : petite amertume de la bière et pâte très très liquide. Il faut faire les crèpes très fines et bien les cuire pour éviter d'avoir le goût d'alcool Attention: quasi-impossible de les retoruner à la main, il faut utiliser une spatule. Ne pas avoir peur ed bien les cuire, elles ramolissent un peu ~15 crèpes fines</p></li>
<li><p>Instructions</p>
<ul>
<li>Faire bouiller le lait avec sel + sucre + vanillet</li>
<li>Ajouter le beurre pour le faire fondre hors feu</li>
<li>Mélanger farine + oeufs (rajouter oeufs si besoin)</li>
<li>Ajouter mélange lait-beurre et mélanger</li>
<li>Ajouter les liqueurs</li>
<li>Ajouter bière jusqu'à &quot;napper&quot; la louche (texture très liquide, presque de l'eau)</li>
<li>Ne pas beurre la poêle et ne pas faire sauter les crèpes (retourner à la main)</li></ul>
</li></ol>

=== MEH Au levain (Epicurious) <span class="tag" tag-name="sourdough">sourdough</span> ===

https://www.epicurious.com/recipes/food/views/sourdough-crepes

* 6 Tbsp. (100 g) sourdough starter
* 2 cups (250 g) all-purpose flour, divided
* 2 large eggs
* ¾ cup plus 1 Tbsp. (or more) milk
* 3 Tbsp. granulated sugar
* ½ tsp. baking soda
* ½ tsp. kosher salt
* 3 Tbsp. unsalted butter, melted, plus more room temperature
* Grapeseed or vegetable oil (for pan)
* Jam, crème fraîche, demerara sugar, and/or lox, (for serving; optional)

# Notes
#* On ne sent pas le goût du levain
#* Crêpes classiques, sans plus
#* Pâte trop épaisse

== RETRY Croissants ==

(PPAP). Pas encore ça… Remarques après plusieurs essais :

* 45min à 190° = trop !! pas assez cuits++ à l'intérieur mais un peu trop à l'extérieur. 180° était trop, essayer 160° ? Changer la position dans le four ?
* Bien laisser pousser avant d'enfourner (45min n'est pas assez !)
* Beurre qui s'échappe = pâte trop malmenée ?
* essayer cette recette : https://www.weekendbakery.com/posts/classic-french-croissant-recipe/

== RETRY Forêt noire ==

Recette de PPAP avec des framboises surgelées à la place des cerises

=== Notes ===

Résultat final bon. Mais

* ne pas pocher les framboises, elles sont trop fragiles
* avec disque de diamètre 20cm, seulement 2 niveaux de génoise
* crème chantilly vanille tout juste pour la déco
* le chocolat fondu &quot;serre&quot; effectivement la chantilly (montée à 80% environ). Fondu au micro-ondes
* Le lendemaine, encore ok
* test de congélation

== RETRY Framboisier : ==

=== Recette de PPAP : ===

* Bon mais pas assez de crème =&gt; 500g de crème liquide = tout juste assez de crème
* Problème principal = comment intégrer la gélatine ? =&gt; ne pas mettre la crème au frigo, attendre qu'elle refroidisse un peu et intégrer directement à la chantilly. Celle-ci va &quot;dégonfler&quot; un peu, mais après un passage au frigo, elle sera ferme
* Framboise surgelées : trop humide, il vaut mieux utiliser des fraîches pour la présentation

== RETRY Galette des rois ==

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ETkk7QXbtlw de Conticini]

* Problème de la quantité : avec 3/4 de la crème, léger surplus pour une grosse galette ?
* Pâte feuilletée inversée plus intéressante que la simple =&gt; prendre la recette de PPAP
* Attention à mettre suffisament d'eau dans la pâte feuilletée : trop dure sinon (et se déchire)
* Frangipane sortie de la galette (alors qu'il en manquait) =&gt; réappuyer pour souder après l'avoir retourné semble fontionner

== RETRY Gâteau au chocolat ==

[https://tasty.co/recipe/the-ultimate-chocolate-cake recette de Tasty]

=== Notes ===

attention, bien cuire le gâteau et '''bien''' attendre qu'il soit froid (sinon tombe en morceaux) !! Pas de bière mais la moitié en eau chaude. Bien dilueer le café en poudre avant. Pour le glacage, quantité de sucre divisée par 2, ok. Pas assez de glacage ?

== RETRY Gaufres ==

pas de souci de cuisson avec [https://www.hervecuisine.com/recette/gaufres-croustillantes-ultra-legeres/ cette recette]. Temps de repos qui fait la différence ? (Souvent pas assez cuite dans les essais précédents)

== RETRY Glace ==

=== RETRY [https://basicswithbabish.co/basicsepisodes/icecream Recette de Babish] ===

Avec +50% des quantités dans notre congélateur : pas de solidification en 30min… Plutôt compter 1 à 2h ! Inutile de mélanger si c'est liquide… Pour un premier essai, correct mais ne vaut pas le coup de s'embêter autant ?

== RETRY Guimauve ==

[http://www.jujube-en-cuisine.fr/marshmallow-ou-guimauve-maison/ jujube-en-cuisine]): trop sucré mais bonne texture

== TODO Ile flottante ==

https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1017447-ile-flottante-with-fresh-cherries Problèmes :

* sauce trop liquide après qq minutes de cuisson et malgré 2h au frais après. Goût un peu curieux avec la cardamone (diminuer dose ?)
* meringue aplatie après la cuisson à la vapeur =&gt; au four la prochaine fois

== TODO Lebkuchen ==

1er essai avec une recette de 750g il y a quelques années 2eme essai avec cette recette : https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/1941/lebkuchen mais plusieurs modifications : Ajout : 1 oeufs, 25g sucre roux, orange confite, noisettes concassées Globalement : plus de farine que mentionné Glacage = 200g chocolat + huile de coco mais pas assez pour tous les gâteaux. Important : couper cuisson quand les bords commencent à brûnir (10min à 180% max) =&gt; résultat : pas mal

3eme essai &quot;free style&quot; 200g farine blanche 50 farine complète 250g miel de chataîgnier 100g beurre 90g poudre d'amandes levure

* cannelle, girofle, sirop d'érable, farine de sarrasin

Glacage : 200g chocolat + beurre + lait (un peu &quot;granuleux&quot; visuellement)

9mm d'épaisseur : limite trop cuit à 15min à 170° ! Miel de chataîgner trop fort, un peu atténué avec une glacage chocolat.

== RETRY Macarons ==

Pour 30 macarons Coque =

* 125g poudre d'amandes
* 125g sucre glace
* 1.5 blanc

Meringue

* 125g sucre semoule
* 35g eau
* 1.5 blanc

Temps de cuisson ~18min à 155° (après préchauffage à 175°) Ganache

* 80g lait
* 20g crème
* 150g chocolat 64%
* 30g beurre

=== Notes ===

* Le plus important = Macaronage =&gt; mélanger jusqu'à pouvoir faire des &quot;8&quot;
* Recette de LPAP = valeur sûre. Faisable avec 2 plaques mais celle du bas (plaque pâtisserie) est moins jolie (parfois correct…), en mode chaleur tournante
* Pour la meringue italienne, on peut verser doucement 30s puis tout d'un coup en mélangeant à fond (cf recette de Raymon Oliver pour sa mousse de fruits)
* Recette de Felden avec du cacao en poudre : pâte d'amande trop épaisse mais résultant décevant malgré tout (plus un cookie) =&gt; des doutes à réessayer…
* Essayer avec meringue française
* Pas de sucre roux !

== RETRY Madeleine ==

=== DONE Recette de Felder: au chocolat ===

Sans cacao : attention à la cuisson : pour des 2/3 de cuillère à soupe, trop cuites en 7min à 215°… Bien remplir les moules (1 grosse cuillère à soupe) et 10-12min de cuisson à 210 Un peu sèche/farineuse =&gt; Comparer à LPAP

=== TODO LPAP ===

Refaire, mais recette de référence normalement

== RETRY Mille-feuille [https://www.facebook.com/PhConticini/photos/a.108115932681384.17237.101025623390415/713491585477146/?type=3 de Conticini] : bien mettre un poids sur la pâte feuilletée pendant la cuisson. Trop de gélatine (crème un peu trop gélatineuse) ==

== RETRY Millionaire short-bread / Twix familial ==

=== Notes ===

* Ne pas trop étaler la pâte.
* Quantité pour avoir autant de caramel de que shortbread… Peut-être diminuer un

peu les doses de caramel ?

* J'ai utilisé 250g de chocolat, un peu juste sinon

=== Ingredients ===

=== Directions ===

== RETRY Moka ==

Felder plutôt que PPAP :

* le biscuit est plus simple chez Felder et plus aéré
* doubler la dose de crème… =&gt; au final, un gâteau avec une légère couche de crème donc pas trop lourd
* beaucoup trop de sirop dans la recette, diviser au moins par 3
* le plus difficile (dans les 2 recettes ) : bien gérer le beurre
** le prendre bien pommade
** quand on le mélange aux oeufs encore chaud, refroidir les oeufs avant … et y aller par petite quantités avec le beurre (NB: possible de recongeler si c'est trop liquide mais éviter…)

== RETRY Mousse au chocolate ==

=== Philippe Conticini : éviter une ganache trop liquide. Ne pas lésiner sur les blancs. Pour 5 parts : ===

* 37 g de sucre roux
* 250 g de blancs d’oeuf
* 70 g de lait demi-écrémé
* 150 g de crème liquide
* 180 g de chocolat noir (68%)
* 60 g de chocolat au lait

=== Au jus de pois chiches ===

; https://tasty.co/recipe/vegan-chocolate-mousse Pendant la préparation
: goût encore fort, légere nausée. 3h plus tard : ok Monte en neige comme des blancs normaux. Pour améliorer le goût :

* Tester avec du jus maison ?
* Meringue italienne ?
* Plus de vanille ?

== RETRY Mousse de fruit ==

Recette meilleur du chef

== RETRY Napolitain ==

=== Ingrédients ===

Pour un gâteau de 16cm x 6.5cm x 8cm (longueur x largeur x hauteur)

* Beurre 200g
* Farine
* Levure 1 sachet
* 4 oeufs
* 200g de sucre environ

Ganache (diminuer les doses car il reste 1/4)

* 150g chocolat
* 100g crème 30%

=== Instructions ===

* Bien mélanger jaunes d'oeuf avec le sucre puis ajouter le beurre fondu
* Ajouter la farine et levure en poudre
* Séparer 2/3 et 1/3. Vanille dans le premier et poudre de cacao dans le second
* Meringue française avec 50g de sucre puis mélanger au reste
* 15min de cuisson à 180%
* Montage

== RETRY Oreo ==

=== Bravetart ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Ingrédients</p>
<p>For the Chocolate Wafers: 4 ounces unsalted butter (about 8 tablespoons; 115g), creamy and soft, about 68°F (20°C) 3 1/2 ounces sugar (about 1/2 cup; 100g) 2 ounces golden syrup (about 3 tablespoons; 55g), such as Lyle’s 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/4 teaspoon (1g) Diamond Crystal kosher salt; for table salt, use about half as much by volume or the same weight 1/4 teaspoon coconut extract (optional) 5 3/4 ounces bleached all-purpose flour (about 1 1/4 cups, spooned; 165g), such as Gold Medal 1 1/4 ounces Dutch-process cocoa powder (about 1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon; 35g), such as Cacao Barry Extra Brute, plus more for dusting For the Filling: 6 ounces unsalted butter (about 12 tablespoons; 170g) 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/8 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt 8 1/2 ounces powdered sugar (about 2 cups plus 1 tablespoon; 240g)</p></li>
<li><p>Notes</p>
<ul>
<li>Ne pas faire les oreo trop large (3cm suffit)</li>
<li>La ganache est vraiment trop sucrée</li>
<li>Le biscuit passe avec du caco non sucré</li></ul>
</li></ol>

== RETRY Pain au lait ==

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wAKaJRl3Ieg 750g]) : bon mais levée sur la nuit semble préférable

== RETRY Pancake ==

=== America test kitchen recipe. Pas mal et pas prise de tête ===

=== Levain <span class="tag" tag-name="sourdough">sourdough</span> ===

https://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/classic-sourdough-waffles-or-pancakes-recipe Avec &quot;restes&quot; de levain. Pancake moelleux mais bien cuire l'intérieur (mettre à feu doux++)… Quantité pour 12 pancakes

== RETRY Paris-Brest ==

=== PPAP ===

crème au beurre toujours un peu trop liquide. Vient du praliné &quot;maison&quot; (loupé par ailleurs) ?

=== Felden ===

Sans praliné, crème se tient bien

== RETRY Pâte à chou ==

(Patisserie, Leçons pas-à-pas) : 45-50min de cuisson

== RETRY Peanut Butter Pie ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 6 tablespoons/85 grams unsalted butter, melted, plus more for the pan
* ¾ cup/150 grams granulated sugar
* ¾ cup/75 grams unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-processed)
* ½ cup/60 grams all-purpose flour
* ½ teaspoon kosher salt
* 1 ¼ cups/300 milliliters heavy cream
* 1 ½ cup/405 grams smooth, sweetened peanut butter, like Jif or Skippy
* 1 8-ounce/226 grams block full-fat cream cheese, at room temperature
* ⅔ cup/133 grams light brown sugar
* 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
* ½ teaspoon kosher salt
* 2 ounces/57 grams semisweet chocolate, chopped (optional)
* 1 tablespoon/14 grams unsalted butter (optional)

=== Directions ===

# Make the crust: Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Have a nonstick standard 9-inch pie plate ready, or generously butter a 9-inch standard pie plate. In a medium bowl, whisk together the sugar, cocoa powder, flour and salt. Add butter, stirring and mashing with a fork, until the crumbs are evenly moistened.
# Transfer the crumbs to the prepared pan and press them evenly into the bottom and sides until crust is about 1/4-inch thick. Bake crust until it looks dry and set, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer the pan to a rack to cool completely, about 30 minutes.
# Make the filling: In a large bowl, whip the cream to stiff peaks using an electric mixer at medium-high speed. Set aside. In another large bowl, beat the peanut butter, cream cheese, brown sugar, vanilla and salt on medium speed until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Use a large rubber spatula to gently fold the whipped cream into the peanut butter mixture. Transfer the mixture to the prepared pan and smooth the top. Chill uncovered for at least 4 to 6 hours, until filling is set.
# Make the topping, if using: In a microwave-safe bowl, melt the chocolate and the butter together in short bursts, stirring often. Transfer the chocolate mixture to a small plastic bag, and cut a 1/8-inch hole in one corner. Drizzle the chocolate over the top to make a decorative pattern. (You may have some left over depending on your taste.) Serve immediately.

=== Modif ===

* Pas de crème fouettée donc remplacée par une meringue française avec 4 blancs

d'oeufs =&gt; résultat correct mais pas aussi &quot;fluffy&quot; que sur la photo

* Attention: la pâte à tarte ne durcira qu'à la sortie du four. 30min à 180% est vraiment un maximum…

== RETRY Soufflé (Bocuse) ==

Echec ! Souffé redescend au bout de 15min de cuisson et clairement pas assez cuit après 20min à 210°. Après 35min, extérieur trop cuit et intérieur limite sous-cuit (mangeable mais sans plus)… 2/3 des quantité = 4 ramequins

== RETRY Tarte au chocolat ==

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZISKki8AcE0 750g]) : pas mal mais plus avec une texture de mousse au chocolat

* 1 pâte sablée
* 300g de chocolat pâtissier
* 500g de crème fraîche liquide
* lait ? (donne plus une )
* 2 oeufs

=== NYT ===

# Ingredients
# Directions
# Notes
#* Quantités pour 1 grande tarte + 2 tartelettes
#* La pâte a un peu attaché au papier cuisson
#* Au goût OK mais caramel trop liquide =&gt; ressayer en allant jusqu'au point ou ça sent légèrement le cramé

== RETRY Tarte aux pommes ==

=== RETRY PPAP ===

Recette de la PPAP : pommes un peu crues, pâte ok. Mieux choisir les pomme la prochaine fois et couper '''très''' fin

=== RETRY [https://basicswithbabish.co/basicsepisodes/pies Recette de babish (double pie crust)] ===

Pâte trop farineuse au goût (seule) mais ok avec les pommes Cuisson : 1h à 180° pour 4 pommes Pâtes très fragile après la cuisson (ne tient pas au service) Pâte &quot;inférieure&quot; assez humide malgré la cuisson à blanc mais après un passage au frigo, se conserve jusqu'au lendemain

=== TODO Bon appetit ===

https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/bas-best-deep-dish-apple-pie Par rapport à la version de Babish : cuisson longue (1h30-2h) et plus de pommes

== RETRY Tiramisu ==

# https://www.seriouseats.com/2017/06/how-to-make-the-best-tiramisu.html =&gt; échec, pâte trop liquide car
# Mieux avec 3 jaune + sucre en sabayon. Ajouter 200g mascarpone battu au fouet et battre le tout. Ajout 20cl crème fouettée délicatement. =&gt; au final, pas de prise au frigo, consistence crème fouettée molle.

== RETRY Yaourt à la yaourtière ==

5 yaourts = 1L de lait entier + 1 yaourt (avec ferments) avec 10h

* Un peu liquide au fond =&gt; essayer avec du lait entier en poudre
* lait de brebis : 1L + 3 CC de lait en poudre + 12h de fermentation = bien ferme. Diminuer lait en poudre

== RETRY Banana bread ==

https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/banana-bread Essai avec

* seulement 2 bananes trop mûres (important)
* crème remplacé par du lait
* sucre blanc au lieu du roux.

Au final, gâteau moelleux. 50min à 180°

= Plat principal =

== RETRY Bolognaise ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
* 3 tablespoons butter plus 1 tablespoon for tossing the pasta
* ½ cup chopped onion
* ⅔ cup chopped celery
* ⅔ cup chopped carrot
* ¾ pound ground beef chuck (or you can use 1 part pork to 2 parts beef)
* Salt
* Black pepper, ground fresh from the mill
* 1 cup whole milk
* Whole nutmeg
* 1 cup dry white wine
* 1 ½ cups canned imported Italian plum tomatoes, cut up, with their juice
* 1 ¼ to 1 ½ pounds pasta
* Freshly grated parmigiano-reggiano cheese at the table

=== Directions ===

# Put the oil, butter and chopped onion in the pot and turn the heat on to medium. Cook and stir the onion until it has become translucent, then add the chopped celery and carrot. Cook for about 2 minutes, stirring vegetables to coat them well.
# Add ground beef, a large pinch of salt and a few grindings of pepper. Crumble the meat with a fork, stir well and cook until the beef has lost its raw, red color.
# Add milk and let it simmer gently, stirring frequently, until it has bubbled away completely. Add a tiny grating – about 1/8 teaspoon – of nutmeg, and stir.
# Add the wine, let it simmer until it has evaporated, then add the tomatoes and stir thoroughly to coat all ingredients well. When the tomatoes begin to bubble, turn the heat down so that the sauce cooks at the laziest of simmers, with just an intermittent bubble breaking through to the surface. Cook, uncovered, for 3 hours or more, stirring from time to time. While the sauce is cooking, you are likely to find that it begins to dry out and the fat separates from the meat. To keep it from sticking, add 1/2 cup of water whenever necessary. At the end, however, no water at all must be left and the fat must separate from the sauce. Taste and correct for salt.
# Toss with cooked drained pasta, adding the tablespoon of butter, and serve with freshly grated Parmesan on the side.

=== Notes ===

Pas mal (ajouté concentré de tomate + feuille basilic). Manque un peu de tomate à la fin ?

== RETRY Cassoulet ==

Recette http://www.confrerieducassoulet.com/la-recette.html Fait avec :

* lard (gros morceaux)
* canard non confit (erreur)
* épaule de porc
* 2 saucisses de toulouse

Au final : 1h30 pour les haricots blancs (sans trempage) et 2h30 au four pour commencer à avoir une croûte à 170°. =&gt; au final, le lard n'est pas tout à fait bien mélangé donc peut-être le faire fondre avant / couper en tout petit morceaux ? Sinon, pas mal mais bouillon un peu fade. Essayer https://foodwishes.blogspot.com/2016/03/cassoulet-worlds-most-complex-simple.html

== RETRY Choux de bruxelles frais rôtis ==

45min à 195° = fondant mais trop cuit à l'extérieur Cuits entiers + huile + sel

== RETRY Coq au vin ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 3 pounds chicken legs and thighs
* 2 ½ teaspoons kosher salt, more as needed
* ½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, more to taste
* 3 cups hearty red wine, preferably from Burgundy
* 1 bay leaf
* 1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme leaves
* 4 ounces lardons, pancetta or bacon, diced into 1/4-inch pieces (about 1 cup)
* 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, more as needed
* 1 large onion, diced
* 1 large carrot, peeled and diced
* 8 ounces white or brown mushrooms, halved if large, and sliced (about 4 cups)
* 2 garlic cloves, minced
* 1 teaspoon tomato paste
* 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
* 2 tablespoons brandy
* 3 tablespoons unsalted butter
* 8 ounces peeled pearl onions (about 12 to 15 onions)
* Pinch sugar
* 2 slices white bread, cut into triangles, crusts removed
* ¼ cup chopped parsley, more for serving

=== Directions ===

# Season chicken with 2 1/4 teaspoons salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. In a large bowl, combine chicken, wine, bay leaf and thyme. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours or, even better, overnight.
# In a large Dutch oven or a heavy-bottomed pot with a tightfitting lid, cook lardons over medium-low heat until fat has rendered, and lardons are golden and crisp, 10 to 15 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer lardons to a paper-towel-lined plate, leaving rendered fat in pot.
# Remove chicken from wine, reserving the marinade. Pat chicken pieces with paper towels until very dry. Heat lardon fat over medium heat until it’s just about to smoke. Working in batches if necessary, add chicken in a single layer and cook until well browned, 3 to 5 minutes per side. (Add oil if the pot looks a little dry.) Transfer chicken to a plate as it browns.
# Add diced onion, carrot, half the mushrooms and the remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt to pot. Cook until vegetables are lightly browned, about 8 minutes, stirring up any brown bits from the pot, and adjusting heat if necessary to prevent burning.
# Stir in garlic and tomato paste and cook for 1 minute, then stir in flour and cook for another minute. Remove from heat, push vegetables to one side of pot, pour brandy into empty side, and ignite with a match. (If you’re too nervous to ignite it, just cook brandy down for 1 minute.) Once the flame dies down, add reserved marinade, bring to a boil, and reduce halfway (to 1 1/2 cups), about 12 minutes. Skim off any large pockets of foam that form on the surface.
# Add chicken, any accumulated juices and half the cooked lardons to the pot. Cover and simmer over low heat for 1 hour, turning halfway through. Uncover pot and simmer for 15 minutes to thicken. Taste and add salt and pepper, if necessary.
# Meanwhile, melt 1 tablespoon butter and 2 tablespoons oil in a nonstick or other large skillet over medium-high heat. Add pearl onions, a pinch of sugar and salt to taste. Cover, reduce heat to low and cook for 15 minutes, shaking skillet often to move onions around. Uncover, push onions to one side of skillet, add remaining mushrooms, and raise heat to medium-high. Continue to cook until browned, stirring mushrooms frequently, and gently tossing onions occasionally, 5 to 8 minutes. Remove onions and mushrooms from skillet, and wipe it out.
# In same skillet, melt 2 tablespoons butter and 1 tablespoon oil over medium heat until bubbling. Add bread and toast on all sides until golden, about 2 minutes per side. (Adjust heat if needed to prevent burning.) Remove from skillet and sprinkle with salt.
# To serve, dip croutons in wine sauce, then coat in parsley. Add pearl onions, mushrooms and remaining half of the cooked lardons to the pot. Baste with wine sauce, sprinkle with parsley and serve with croutons on top.

=== Notes ===

Testé avec rhum : pas senti. Sans le surplus de sauce, ni crouton. Bonne sauce mais riche.

== RETRY Cornbread ==

https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/buttermilk-cornbread Bien moelleux mais quantité approximative de farine et de lait (+50% ?). Trop de levure (1 sachet) ?

== RETRY Couscous : [http://www.ptitecuisinedepauline.com/article-clafoutis-aux-pommes-122364862.html recette de semoule traditionnelle] ==

=== Graine ===

* Huile (6 CS pour 1Kg) + humidifier. 30min de cuisson
* huile + eau puis cuisson 20min
* Eau si besoin + cuisson 15min

=== viande ===

* curcuma 1CC
* gingembre poudre
* sel
* ras al nout++
* safran
* +/- tomates (concentré de tomate marche) Cuisson : pour des cuisses de poulet et de l'épaule d'agneau en morceaux, 2H30 dont 1h45 à la pression donne une viande très fondante

=== Légumes ===

Carottes, potiron, navets, courgettes

== RETRY Crevettes ==

=== Notes ===

Pas mal, très rapide à faire. Je mets les crevettes dans la sauce directement

=== Ingredients ===

* 4 tablespoons unsalted butter
* 1 large clove garlic, minced
* Juice of two large limes
* 1 tablespoon Indonesian sambal (preferably sambal oelek, by Huy Fong, though sriracha will work as well)
* Kosher salt
* freshly ground black pepper to taste
* 1 pound large, fresh, shell-on shrimp
* 1 teaspoon jalapeño, seeded and chopped (optional)
* 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro

=== Directions ===

# In a small saucepan set over low heat, melt 1 tablespoon of butter. Add the garlic and cook, stirring for 2 minutes.
# Add remaining 3 tablespoons butter to saucepan. When it melts, stir in the lime juice, chili sauce, salt and pepper. Turn off the heat and allow the sauce to rest.
# Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil. Add the shrimp and cook for 2 minutes or until they are just firm and pink. Do not overcook. Drain into a colander and shake over the sink to remove excess moisture.
# In a large bowl, toss the shrimp and chili sauce. Add jalapeño, if desired, sprinkle with cilantro and toss again.

== Haricots blancs ==

=== RETRY NYT: haricots blancs crémeux ===

https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019385-creamy-white-beans-with-herb-oil 1 citron entier pour 1Kg haricots blancs : je trouve que le citron est trop agressif et ne va pas avec… Testé avec persil + menthe + basilic

== RETRY Falafels (traditionnels) : ==

3 échecs successifs… Réssayer en

* mixant bien, bien la pâte
* mettre au frais pour éviter qu'ils ne se détachent dans la friture

OK avec ces 2 modifications !

== RETRY Kebab ==

=== Grilled Chicken Pita With Yogurt Sauce and Arugula ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Ingredients</p></li>
<li><p>Directions</p></li>
<li><p>Notes</p>
<p>Cuisse de poulet = mauvaise idée. Très long à couper et la flemm d'enlever les tendons… Et difficile à griller ? Sauce : crème fraîche + menthe + persil + olive : pas convaincu par les olives. À refaire proprement</p></li></ol>

== RETRY Lablabi (Tunisian Chickpea Soup) ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 1 ¾ cup cooked chickpeas, or 1 (15-ounce) can chickpeas, drained and rinsed
* 2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil
* ½ teaspoon kosher salt, plus more to taste
* 1 teaspoon za’atar, plus more to taste
* 1 ½ cups dried chickpeas, soaked overnight and drained
* ¼ cup plus 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for serving
* 2 bay leaves
* 1 ½ teaspoon kosher salt, plus more to taste
* ½ loaf hearty rustic bread (about 8 ounces)
* 1 cup chopped onion, from 1 medium onion
* 6 garlic cloves, minced or finely grated
* 1 tablespoon ground cumin, plus more for serving
* 1 tablespoon tomato paste
* 1 tablespoon harissa paste, plus more for serving
* 3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
* 1 tablespoon finely grated lemon zest, for serving
* ½ cup chopped flat-leaf parsley, for serving

=== Directions ===

# Prepare the crispy chickpeas: Transfer chickpeas to a rimmed baking sheet lined with a clean dish towel or paper towels. Cover with another towel (or paper towels) on top, rubbing gently to dry. Remove top towel and let air-dry for at least 30 minutes and preferably 1 hour.
# As chickpeas dry, start preparing the soup: In a Dutch oven or heavy stockpot, combine soaked chickpeas, 5 cups water, 1 tablespoon olive oil, bay leaves and 1/2 teaspoon salt over high heat. Bring to a boil for 2 to 3 minutes, then reduce heat to a simmer, cover and cook until chickpeas are tender, about 1 to 2 hours.
# Heat oven to 400 degrees. While chickpeas are cooking, cut bread into thick slices, then tear slices into bite-size pieces. Place bread in one layer on large rimmed baking sheet and toast until crisp and light brown, about 10 minutes. Let cool on pan and set aside.
# Finish the crunchy chickpeas: Raise oven temperature to 425 degrees. Remove the towels from baking sheet with the chickpeas, and toss the chickpeas with 2 teaspoons olive oil, 1/2 teaspoon salt and za’atar until well coated. Roast until golden and crispy, about 13 to 18 minutes, tossing halfway through. When chickpeas are still hot, sprinkle lightly more salt. Taste and add more salt or za’atar, or both, if you’d like.
# When the chickpeas for the soup are tender, discard bay leaves. Using a slotted spoon, transfer 2 cups of chickpeas, 1/2 cup of chickpea cooking liquid and 1/4 cup olive oil to a blender or food processor, and purée until smooth. (Alternatively, you can use an immersion blender to blitz half the chickpeas into a rough purée. Add the olive oil before puréeing. The broth won’t be as silky as it would be puréed in a regular blender, but it will taste just as good.)
# In a large skillet over medium-high, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons oil until shimmering. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and cook until golden, about 2 minutes. Add the remaining 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon cumin and tomato paste and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 1 minute. Add a splash of the chickpea cooking liquid to the pan, and bring to a simmer to deglaze, scraping up the browned bits on the bottom of the pan. Turn off heat.
# Add chickpea purée and onion mixture to soup, along with harissa and lemon juice, and stir well. Add a little water if soup seems too thick, and more salt, if needed.
# To serve, divide toasted bread pieces among soup bowls, then ladle in soup. Garnish with lemon zest, parsley, olive oil, more cumin and some of the crispy chickpeas — you’ll have leftovers. Serve hot, with more harissa on the side.

=== Notes ===

* version sans harissa et oublié le citron
* J'ai utilisé le jus des pois chiches pour la cuisson =&gt; mauvaise idée
* À refaire correctement

== RETRY Beef Stroganoff ==

=== Ingredients ===

Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 1 ½ pounds sirloin roast, or beef tenderloin, if you’re feeling fancy 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 ½ teaspoons hot paprika 1 tablespoon neutral oil, such as canola or grapeseed 4 tablespoons unsalted butter ½ pound button mushrooms, cleaned and cut into quarters 2 small shallots, thinly sliced 12 ounces wide egg noodles ¼ cup dry white wine 1 cup heavy cream or crème fraîche 1 ½ teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 1 ½ teaspoons Dijon mustard Chopped fresh parsley, for garnish

=== Directions ===

Preparation

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cut the beef against the grain into 1/2-inch slices, pound lightly, then cut those slices into 1-inch-wide strips. Add the flour, paprika, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and 1 1/2 teaspoons pepper to a large shallow bowl and toss to combine. Dredge the strips of meat in the flour mixture, shake them to remove excess flour, then transfer them to a rimmed baking sheet. Place a large skillet over high heat and swirl in the oil. When the oil begins to shimmer, sauté the beef slices, in two batches, until they are well browned on both sides but rare inside, 3 to 4 minutes per batch. Transfer the seared meat to the baking sheet. Turn the heat down slightly. Add 1 tablespoon of the butter to the pan. When it has melted and started to foam, add the mushrooms, toss to coat them with the fat, and season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring frequently, until the mushrooms have released their moisture and are a deep, dark brown, 12 to 15 minutes. About halfway into the process, add the sliced shallots and 1 tablespoon butter and stir to combine. While the mushrooms cook, add the noodles to the boiling water, and cook until just done, about 10 minutes. Drain the noodles, and toss with the remaining 2 tablespoons butter. Set aside. When the mushrooms and shallots are soft and caramelized, deglaze the pan with the wine, scraping at all the stuck-on bits on the pan’s surface. When the wine has reduced by about half, slowly stir in the cream, followed by the Worcestershire and mustard. Add the meat, along with any accumulated juices, and stir to combine. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the dish is hot and the beef is medium-rare, 2 to 3 minutes. Taste, and adjust the seasonings. Serve the noodles under or alongside the stroganoff; sprinkle stroganoff with parsley.

=== Notes ===

Pas mal

== DONE Haricots blancs à la tomate ==

Bien cuire la sauce tomate 10min avant d'ajouter le reste https://www.thecookierookie.com/white-beans-recipe/

== Kluski na parze ==

=== Ingrédients : ===

500 g de farine 1 verre de lait 3 oeufs 3 cuillères à soupe de beurre fondu 30 gr de levure de boulangerie 1 pincée de sel

=== Préparation : ===

Délayez la levure dans un peu de lait tiède. Mélangez la avec un peu de farine. Laissez reposer dans un endroit tiède. Quand elle a grossi de moitié, ajoutez la farine, le sel, les oeufs et le beurre. Pétrissez à la main. Remettez la pâte à lever dans un endroit tiède (couvrir d'un linge humide ) . Formez avec la pâte des boules ressemblant à de beignets. ( un verre à moutarde peut servir d'emporte pièces pour découper la pate ) Laissez à nouveau lever la pâte et pour la cuisson, prenez deux marmites, remplissez l' une à moitié d’eau, recouvrez-la d’un linge propre et serrez le linge autour des bords avec de la ficelle, portez l' eau à ébullition. Faites cuire les beignets à la vapeur sur le linge pendant 10 minutes en recouvrant d' une marmite de même diamètre. (Plus simple utiliser un couscoussier si vous en avez un… ou un cuit-vapeur en adaptant la durée de la cuisson)

Les &quot; kluski na parze &quot;accompagnent un plat en sauce tel que des &quot; Rolades &quot; le tout servi avec du chou rouge .

== RETRY Lasagnes ==

https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/ba-best-lasagna =&gt; ok mais

* bien saler béchamel et viande sinon un peu fade
* cuisson avec 1h four et 1h à la cocotte =&gt; meilleur au four ?
* NB : sauce = viande + un peu de liquide à côté. Je regrette de ne pas avoir une texture plus crémeuse
* on ne sent pas le parmesan
* la couche supérieure de pâte n'a pas cuite malgré le papier alu =&gt; supprimer ?

== RETRY Porc fondant ==

=== Oignon rouge, ail chemisé, curry, porc à braiser. Le tout cuit pendant 2h au moins avec couvercle ===

=== Pulled pork ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Ingredients</p>
<ul>
<li>1 tablespoon garlic powder</li>
<li>1 tablespoon onion powder</li>
<li>2 teaspoons hot or sweet smoked paprika</li>
<li>2 teaspoons salt, plus more to taste</li>
<li>1 teaspoon black pepper, plus more to taste</li>
<li>3 to 4 pound boneless pork shoulder or pork butt, trimmed of most of its excess fat</li>
<li>2 tablespoons vegetable oil, plus additional for greasing</li>
<li>1 yellow onion, chopped (optional)</li>
<li>1 (12-ounce) can dark soda, like Dr Pepper, root beer, cola or birch beer</li>
<li>½ to 1 ½ cups homemade or store-bought barbecue sauce</li>
<li>Hot sauce (optional)</li></ul>
</li>
<li><p>Directions</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>In a small bowl, combine the garlic and onion powders, smoked paprika, salt and black pepper. Rub the spice mixture all over the pork. If you have time, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 2 hours or up to overnight. If you don’t, no worries; proceed to Step 2.</li>
<li>Lightly grease the crock of a slow cooker. Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Sear the pork until golden brown on all sides, about 2 minutes each side. Add onion, if using, to the slow cooker. Add the pork on top of the onion. Pour soda over the pork and set the slow cooker to low for 6 to 8 hours, until the meat has collapsed and shreds easily.</li>
<li>Drain most of the liquid from the slow cooker and shred the meat directly in the pot. Add about 1/2 cup of the barbecue sauce and stir to combine. (At this point, if you like crisp bits in your pulled pork, you can spread the shredded pork on a sheet pan and place under a broiler for a couple minutes then return to the slow cooker.) Taste and add more barbecue sauce, hot sauce, salt or pepper, if desired. Serve with soft rolls and extra sauce on the side.</li></ol>
</li>
<li><p>Notes</p>
<p>6 heures à 160% avec &quot;searing&quot;. Écrasé à la fourchette au bout de 3h pour permettre d'absorber le gras. Bien en burger avec sauce BBQ</p></li></ol>

=== RETRY Rouelle de porc ===

Au four 160° 5h http://www.auxdelicesdemanue.com/-02

== RETRY Poulet cocotte (Bocuse) ==

Cuisson : 15min au gaz et 45min au four (pas assez cuit sinon) Pdt : bonnes Poulet : un peu sec

== RETRY Poulet glacage soja-miel-gingembre ==

=== Notes ===

Cuisson à 1950 45min avec poulets non décongelés : ok, manque un peu de crispiness À ressayer avec du gingembre

=== Ingredients ===

* 2 tablespoons canola oil
* 1 tablespoon minced garlic
* 1 tablespoon minced ginger
* 6 tablespoons low-sodium soy sauce (see tip)
* 5 tablespoons mild honey, such as clover, acacia or orange blossom
* 3 tablespoons unsalted butter
* Kosher salt and black pepper
* 8 bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs (about 3 pounds)
* Lemon wedges, for serving

=== Directions ===

# Heat the oven to 425 degrees. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a small saucepan over low heat. Add the garlic and ginger and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 3 minutes. Add the soy sauce and honey and simmer, stirring occasionally, until reduced and slightly thickened, about 10 minutes. Turn off the heat then whisk in the butter. Season with salt and pepper.
# On an aluminum foil-lined rimmed baking sheet, season the chicken all over with salt and pepper. Add half the glaze and the remaining 1 tablespoon oil and toss the chicken to coat. Arrange in an even layer, skin side up, and roast until browned, 15 minutes. Brush the chicken all over with 2 tablespoons of the remaining glaze. Roast until golden and cooked through, about 10 minutes.
# Drizzle the chicken with the remaining glaze and serve with lemon wedges.

== RETRY Quiche ==

Bien cuire le fond de tarte avant (15-20min). Les bords doivent être parfaitement cuits !

== RETRY Soupe maïs-lait de coco (Des soupes qui nous font du bien) ==

Même en diminuant le ratio lait de coco/maïs à 40/60 au lieu de 60/40, encore très riche. Essayer 70/30

== OK Soupe haricots verts-aspergs ==

Filtrer pour les fibres !

== RETRY Tortilla ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 4 cups all-purpose flour
* 1 teaspoon salt
* 2 teaspoons baking powder
* 2 tablespoons lard
* 1 1/2 cups water

=== Directions ===

# Whisk the flour, salt, and baking powder together in a mixing bowl. Mix in the lard with your fingers until the flour resembles cornmeal. Add the water and mix until the dough comes together; place on a lightly floured surface and knead a few minutes until smooth and elastic. Divide the dough into 24 equal pieces and roll each piece into a ball.
# Preheat a large skillet over medium-high heat. Use a well-floured rolling pin to roll a dough ball into a thin, round tortilla. Place into the hot skillet, and cook until bubbly and golden; flip and continue cooking until golden on the other side. Place the cooked tortilla in a tortilla warmer; continue rolling and cooking the remaining dough.

=== Notes ===

1er essai échec (recette de Chef John): trop dure, trop farineuse. Avec cette recette ok mais :

* pâte bien hydratée++
* important de chauffer fort la poêle mais de cuire à feu moyen. 30s par côté x2 donc 2min au total
* étaler le plus fin possible
* si bulles = OK
* bulles !

=== Misc ===

* https://www.reddit.com/r/AskCulinary/comments/1euuvv/why_do_my_homemade_tortillas_get_brittlehard_so/)
* https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019621-sonoran-style-flour-tortillas
* https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/05/soft-chewy-flour-tortillas-recipe.html

== RETRY Vegan burger ==

Pois chiches 500g + 1 oeuf + assaissonnement + 150g de farine de sarrasin = texture à la poêle OK. On peut probablement diminuer les doses de farine à 100g Le plus important est d'avoir une pôle qui n'attache pas. Source https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/chickpea-coriander-burgers Avec du yaourt grec : moins sec mais une petite amertume

== RETRY Agneau Biryani ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 4 green finger chiles (or serrano chiles), stems removed
* 8 garlic cloves, peeled
* 1 (4-inch) piece fresh ginger, peeled
* 2 medium yellow onions, peeled and quartered
* 2 Roma tomatoes, quartered
* 1 cup full-fat yogurt
* 1 cup fresh mint leaves
* 1 cup fresh cilantro leaves
* 1 tablespoon ground coriander
* 1 tablespoon ground cumin
* 1 teaspoon Kashmiri chile powder, plus more as needed
* ½ teaspoon ground turmeric
* 2 teaspoons kosher salt, plus more as needed
* 2 ½ to 3 pounds lamb chops (or boneless or bone-in lamb shoulder pieces)
* 3 (1/2-inch) Indian cinnamon sticks, or 1 large cinnamon stick
* 12 whole black peppercorns
* 6 cloves
* 6 green cardamom pods
* 1 tablespoon garam masala
* 1 cup neutral oil, such as grapeseed or canola
* 2 yellow onions, thinly sliced
* ½ teaspoon kosher salt
* Kosher salt
* 3 cups basmati rice
* 6 tablespoons whole milk
* ½ teaspoon saffron threads
* 2 cups mixed fresh cilantro and mint leaves
* 6 tablespoons unsalted butter, sliced

=== Directions ===

# Prepare the lamb marinade: Add the finger chiles, garlic and ginger to a food processor and process until finely chopped. Add the onions and tomatoes, process until smooth, and scrape into a bowl that will hold all the lamb and fit in your fridge. Add the yogurt, mint, cilantro, coriander, cumin, chile powder, turmeric and salt, and stir to combine. Add the lamb to the bowl and toss to coat in the marinade, then cover and refrigerate overnight.
# Prepare the fried onions: In a Dutch oven or heavy pot, heat the oil over medium. Add the onions, season with salt, and sauté until browned, stirring occasionally, 25 to 30 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer fried onions to a paper towel-lined plate. Using your hands, pull apart the fried onions to separate to prevent them from sticking together, and set aside.
# Add the cinnamon, peppercorns, cloves and cardamom to the remaining hot oil, and fry over medium until fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in the meat, its marinade and 1 cup water, and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the meat is tender and the sauce is very thick and dark, about 2 1/2 hours, adjusting the heat as needed to maintain a low simmer. Stir in the garam masala and taste, adjusting with salt and chile powder as needed. Set aside.
# Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Prepare the rice: Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil and add the rice. Stir well and cook for 3 minutes, transfer to a colander in the sink to drain. Run some cool water on top to cool the rice; set aside.
# Prepare the saffron milk for assembly: Warm the milk in a small saucepan over medium heat just until it steams. Remove from heat and add the saffron, crumbling it with your fingertips as you drop it into the milk. Set aside.
# In a large, heavy, lidded pot, add about a third of the meat mixture in an even layer covering the bottom of the pot. Sprinkle the meat with a third of the herbs and a third of the rice, assembling lightly without packing the layers. Drizzle 2 tablespoons saffron milk over the rice and add about a third of the fried onions. Build two more layers of meat, herbs, rice, saffron milk and onions. Top with pats of butter and cover the pot with foil.
# Put the lid on the pot of rice, transfer to the oven and bake until piping hot, about 1 hour. Let rest for about 10 minutes, then serve hot, digging all the way to the bottom of the pot with the serving spoon. To reheat, warm the biryani covered in the oven, or microwave.

=== Notes ===

* Pas de coriandre… Fais avec de la menthe et du basilic
* Problème : que faire des clous de girofle + grains de poivre dans la sauce ? Je les ai enlevé à la main mais pas pratique…
* Couche supérieure de riz est un peu sèche et bien moins bonne que le fond (sauce++)
* Fait sans le beurre (cf commentaires), ni les oignons frits
* Temps de cuisson : 2h30 à la cocotte-minute pour 1kg700 d'épaule d'agneau entière = fondant. 1h au four + 10 min = riz cuit

Au total: réessayer avec de la coriandre, hydrater plus la couche supérieur de riz

= Pains =

Pour une croûte : augmenter la vapeur

== Homemade Pita Bread ==

=== Ingredients ===

=== Directions ===

=== Notes ===

Ne pas trop étaler sinon ne gonfle pas. Ok avec 3min + 3min de cuisson à 250° sur plaque à pizza

== Levain <span class="tag" tag-name="sourdough">sourdough</span> ==

=== RETRY Overnight country blonde (Flour, water, salt, yeast) ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Problèmes :</p>
<ul>
<li>pâte difficile à façonner</li>
<li>colle au torchon malgré beaucoup de farine</li>
<li>résultat trop plat</li></ul>

<p>Solutions possibles</p>
<ul>
<li>plus de folds/meilleure technique pour augmenter la &quot;tenue&quot; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vmb0wWKITBQ</li>
<li>torchon de lin et farine de riz pour éviter que ça ne colle</li>
<li>acheter un &quot;coupe-pâte&quot; pour façonner (cf &quot;high hydratation technique&quot;</li>
<li>diminuer l'hydratation sinon</li></ul>

<p>Source : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BJEHsvW2J6M</p>
<p>THIS RECIPE MAKES 2 LOAVES, EACH ABOUT 1½ POUNDS, OR 1 BIG LOAF (SEE THE VARIATION). BULK FERMENTATION: 12 to 15 hours PROOF TIME: About 4 hours SAMPLE SCHEDULE: Feed the levain at 9 a.m., mix the final dough at 5 p.m., shape into loaves at 8 a.m. the next morning, and bake at noon. Levain</p></li>
<li><p>Ingrédients</p>
<p>INGREDIENT QUANTITY Mature, active levain 100 g White flour 400 g Whole wheat flour 100 g Water 400 g, 85ºF to 90ºF (29ºC to 32ºC)</p>
<p>Final Dough Baker’s Formula INGREDIENT FINAL DOUGH White flour 804 g 90% Whole wheat flour 26 g 5% Rye flour 50 g5% Water 684 g,78% Fine sea salt 22 g 2.2%</p></li>
<li><p>Instuctions</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>a. Feed the levain About 24 hours after your previous feeding of the levain, discard all but 100 grams of levain, leaving the remainder in your 6-quart tub.</li></ol>

<p>Add 400 grams of white flour, 100 grams of whole wheat flour, and 400 grams of water at 85°F to 90°F (29°C to 32°C) and mix by hand just until incorporated. Cover and let rest at room temperature for 7 to 9 hours before mixing the final dough.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>b. Autolyse After 7 to 9 hours, mix the 804 grams of white flour, the 50 grams of rye flour, and the 26 grams of whole wheat flour by hand in a 12-quart round tub. Add the 684 grams of 90°F to 95°F (32°C to 35°C) water and mix by hand just until incorporated. Cover and let rest for 20 to 30 minutes.</li>
<li>Mix the final dough Sprinkle the 22 grams of salt evenly over the top of the dough.</li></ol>

<p>Put a container with about a finger’s depth of warm water on your scale so you can easily remove the levain after it’s weighed. With wet hands, transfer 216 grams (or more if your kitchen is cool; see “Seasonal Variations”) of levain into the container. Transfer the weighed levain to the 12-quart dough tub, minimizing the amount of water transferred with it. Mix by hand, wetting your working hand before mixing so the dough doesn’t stick to you. Use the pincer method alternating with folding the dough to fully integrate the ingredients. The target dough temperature at the end of the mix is 77°F to 78°F (25°C to 26°C).</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>Fold This dough needs three or four folds (see Step 3: Fold the Dough). Because overnight levain dough expands very slowly, it can be folded anytime that’s convenient before you go to bed, perhaps doing two or three folds during the first hour and the final fold whenever convenient that evening.</li></ol>

<p>When the dough is nearly triple its original volume, or possibly a bit less in winter, 12 to 15 hours after mixing, it’s ready to be divided.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>Divide With floured hands, gently ease the dough out of the tub and onto a lightly floured work surface. With your hands still floured, pick up the dough and ease it back down onto the work surface in a somewhat even shape. Use a bit of flour to dust the area in the middle where you’ll cut the dough, then cut it into 2 equal-size pieces with a dough knife or plastic dough scraper.</li>
<li>Shape the dough Dust 2 proofing baskets with flour. Shape each piece of dough into a medium-tight ball following these instructions. Place each seam side down in its proofing basket.</li>
<li>Proof Set the baskets side by side and cover with a kitchen towel, or place each basket in a nonperforated plastic bag. Proofing time should be about 4 hours, assuming a room temperature of about 70°F (21°C). Use the finger-dent test to determine when they are perfectly proofed and ready to bake.</li>
<li>Preheat At least 45 minutes prior to baking, put a rack in the middle of the oven and put 2 Dutch ovens on the rack with their lids on. Preheat the oven to 475°F (245°C). If you only have 1 Dutch oven, put the second loaf into the refrigerator about 20 minutes before baking the first loaf and bake the loaves sequentially, giving the Dutch oven a 5-minute reheat after removing the first loaf.</li>
<li>Bake For the next step, please be careful not to let your hands, fingers, or forearms touch the extremely hot Dutch oven.</li></ol>

<p>Invert the proofed loaf onto a lightly floured countertop, keeping in mind that the top of the loaf will be the side that was facing down while it was rising—the seam side. Remove the preheated Dutch oven from your kitchen oven, remove the lid, and carefully place the loaf in the Dutch oven seam side up. Cover and bake for 30 minutes, then uncover and bake for 20 to 25 minutes, until medium dark brown to very dark brown all around the loaf. Check after 15 minutes of baking uncovered in case your oven runs hot. Remove the Dutch oven and carefully tilt it to turn the loaf out. Let cool on a rack or set the loaf on its side so air can circulate around it. Let the loaf rest for at least 20 minutes before slicing.</p></li></ol>

== Pain à burger ==

=== Ingredients ===

* 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast (such as Fleischmann's ActiveDry Yeast®)
* 450g all-purpose flour, or as needed - divided
* 260g warm water (105 degrees F/41 degrees C)
* 1 large egg
* 3 tablespoons butter, melted
* 3 tablespoons white sugar
* 1 1/4 teaspoons salt
* 1 teaspoon olive oil
* 1 egg, beaten
* 1 tablespoon milk
* 1 teaspoon sesame seeds, or as needed

=== Directions ===

# Line a baking sheet with a silicone mat or parchment paper.
# Place yeast into bowl of a large stand mixer; whisk in 1/2 cup flour and warm water until smooth. Let stand until mixture is foamy, 10 to 15 minutes.
# Whisk 1 egg, melted butter, sugar, and salt thoroughly into yeast mixture. Add remaining flour (about 3 cups).
# Fit a dough hook onto stand mixer and knead the dough on low speed until soft and sticky, 5 to 6 minutes. Scrape sides if needed. Poke and prod the dough with a silicone spatula; if large amounts of dough stick to the spatula, add a little more flour.
# Transfer dough onto a floured work surface; dough will be sticky and elastic but not stick to your fingers. Form the dough lightly into a smooth, round shape, gently tucking loose ends underneath.
# Wipe out stand mixer bowl, drizzle olive oil into the bowl, and turn dough over in the bowl several times to coat surface thinly with oil. Cover bowl with aluminum foil. Let dough rise in a warm place until doubled, about 2 hours.
# Transfer dough to a floured work surface and pat to flatten bubbles and form into a slightly rounded rectangle of dough about 5x10 inches and about 1/2 inch thick. Dust dough lightly with flour if needed. Cut dough into 8 equal pieces. Form each piece into a round shape, gently tucking ends underneath as before.
# Use your hands to gently pat and stretch the dough rounds into flat disc shapes about 1/2 inch thick. Arrange buns about 1/2 inch apart on prepared baking sheet. Dust buns very lightly with flour. Drape a piece of plastic wrap over the baking sheet (do not seal tightly). Let buns rise until doubled, about 1 hour.
# Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
# Beat 1 egg with milk in a small bowl, using a fork, until mixture is thoroughly combined. Very gently and lightly brush tops of buns with egg wash without deflating the risen dough. Sprinkle each bun with sesame seeds.
# Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned on top, 15 to 17 minutes. Buns will stick together slightly where they touch. Let cool completely, tear the buns apart, and slice in half crosswise to serve.

=== Notes ===

Bonne recette, rappelle la brioche. Levée dans un four tiède : 2h et 30min respectivement. Cuisson 35min à 190° Façonner plus &quot;en boule&quot; pour éviter qu'ils ne soient trop plats

== Pain au sarrasin ==

=== 1/3 sarassin, 2/3 farine complète : goût curieux, un peu lourd ===

== Pain blanc ==

=== Recette du NYT &quot;No-Knead&quot; fonctionne bien, avec 1/2 CC de levure pour 500g ===

== Pain complet ==

http://bakeryaddict.canalblog.com/archives/2012/07/24/24767223.html

=== Sans moule, pas mal ===

=== [http://www.abreaducation.com/wholewheat.php Breadeducation] lève mais un peu ===

costaud

* seulement de la farine complète !

== Pain de seigle ==

=== Majoritairement farine de seigle, avec un peu de farine de blé au début + ===

pendant processus

* 1h pour première levée, 1h (?) seconde levée : n'a pas assez levé
* 30min premiere levée, retravaillé 10min après, 1h15 seconde levée, cuisson 50min à 200° : pas levé, juste étalé.

== Pain pita ==

== Pizza ==

=== Overnight pizza from &quot;Flour, yeast, water, salt&quot; ===

Bonne pâte, difficulté est d'enfourner. Faire la pizza sur la pelle directement… 10min à 250 + 3 min gril !

=== Overnight pizza avec levain from &quot;Flour, yeast, water, salt&quot; ===

Temps de cuisson identiques, on sent un peu le levain au niveau de la croûte. Bonne pâte également

== Grissini ==

https://www.wildyeastblog.com/grissini-revisited/

=== Ingredients ===

340 g flour 200 g water 9 g (1.5 t.) salt 23 g olive oil 228 g mature 100%-hydration sourdough starter (doit flotter)

=== Notes ===

Cuisson ~15min à 200°

== Foccacia <span class="tag" tag-name="sourdough">sourdough</span> ==

Recette de &quot;flour, water, yeast, salt&quot;

=== Notes ===

* Pâte un peu humide avec temps de cuisson x2
