* Math math
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: math-math
  :END:

** TOREAD Reinhart, A. (): Statistics done wrong stats
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-reinhart-a.-statistics-done-wrong-stats
   :END:

L

** TOREAD Knill, O. (2018): Some fundamental theorems in mathematics
math
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-knill-o.-2018-some-fundamental-theorems-in-mathematics-math
   :END:

** TOREAD Greenland, S., Senn, S. J., Rothman, K. J., Carlin, J. B.,
Poole, C., Goodman, S. N., & Altman, D. G. (2016): Statistical tests, p
values, confidence intervals, and power: a guide to misinterpretations
math stats
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-greenland-s.-senn-s.-j.-rothman-k.-j.-carlin-j.-b.-poole-c.-goodman-s.-n.-altman-d.-g.-2016-statistical-tests-p-values-confidence-intervals-and-power-a-guide-to-misinterpretations-math-stats
   :END:

** TOREAD Fong, B., & Spivak, D. I. (2018): Seven sketches in
compositionality: an invitation to applied category theory book math
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-fong-b.-spivak-d.-i.-2018-seven-sketches-in-compositionality-an-invitation-to-applied-category-theory-book-math
   :END:

* CS
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: cs
  :END:

** Inpainting maths
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: inpainting-maths
   :END:

** TOREAD Amsterdam, V. U. (2018): Machine learning course course
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-amsterdam-v.-u.-2018-machine-learning-course-course
   :END:

** TOREAD Steffen, J. H. (2008): Optimal boarding method for airline
passengers
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-steffen-j.-h.-2008-optimal-boarding-method-for-airline-passengers
   :END:

** TOREAD Davis, A., Rubinstein, M., Wadhwa, N., Mysore, G. J., Fr\'edo
Durand, & Freeman, W. T. (2014): The Visual Microphone cs paper sound
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-davis-a.-rubinstein-m.-wadhwa-n.-mysore-g.-j.-fredo-durand-freeman-w.-t.-2014-the-visual-microphone-cs-paper-sound
   :END:

** Lukas' papers cs
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: lukas-papers-cs
   :END:

** Slides GPU cs
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: slides-gpu-cs
   :END:

1, OK httalcul.math.cnrs.fr/spip.php?article292

* Physics physics
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: physics-physics
  :END:

** TOREAD Maldacena, J. (2015): The symmetry and simplicity of the laws
of physics and the higgs boson
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-maldacena-j.-2015-the-symmetry-and-simplicity-of-the-laws-of-physics-and-the-higgs-boson
   :END:

* Medecine medecine
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: medecine-medecine
  :END:

** TOREAD Rudnicka, A. R. (2005): 2. essential medical statistics (2nd
edn). betty r. kirkwood and jonathan a. c. sterne, blackwell science,
oxford, 2003. no. of pages: 512. price: £22.95. isbn 0-86542-871-9
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-rudnicka-a.-r.-2005-2.-essential-medical-statistics-2nd-edn.-betty-r.-kirkwood-and-jonathan-a.-c.-sterne-blackwell-science-oxford-2003.-no.-of-pages-512.-price-22.95.-isbn-0-86542-871-9
   :END:

Seems to answer my questions about stats in med school

** DONE Fang, Y., Zhang, H., Xie, J., Lin, M., Ying, L., Pang, P., & Ji,
W. (2020): Sensitivity of chest ct for covid-19: comparison to rt-pcr
:infectious: covid19
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: done-fang-y.-zhang-h.-xie-j.-lin-m.-ying-l.-pang-p.-ji-w.-2020-sensitivity-of-chest-ct-for-covid-19-comparison-to-rt-pcr-infectious-covid19
   :END:

** TOREAD Thomas, D. L. (2019): Global elimination of chronic hepatitis
infectious
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-thomas-d.-l.-2019-global-elimination-of-chronic-hepatitis-infectious
   :END:

** TOREAD Grenfell, B. T., Bjørnstad, O. N., & Finkenstädt, B. F.
(2002): DYNAMICS OF MEASLES EPIDEMICS: SCALING NOISE, DETERMINISM, AND
PREDICTABILITY WITH THE TSIR MODEL :infectious:modeling
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-grenfell-b.-t.-bjørnstad-o.-n.-finkenstädt-b.-f.-2002-dynamics-of-measles-epidemics-scaling-noise-determinism-and-predictability-with-the-tsir-model-infectiousmodeling
   :END:

Technique++ : modélisation stochastique

** TOREAD Jaulhac, B., Saunier, A., Caumes, E., ouiller, K., Gehanno,
J., Rabaud, C., Perrot, S., ... (2019): Lyme borreliosis and other
tick-borne diseases. guidelines from the french scientific societies
(ii). biological diagnosis, treatment, persistent symptoms after
documented or suspected lyme borreliosis infectious
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-jaulhac-b.-saunier-a.-caumes-e.-ouiller-k.-gehanno-j.-rabaud-c.-perrot-s.-2019-lyme-borreliosis-and-other-tick-borne-diseases.-guidelines-from-the-french-scientific-societies-ii.-biological-diagnosis-treatment-persistent-symptoms-after-documented-or-suspected-lyme-borreliosis-infectious
   :END:

Dernières recos sur Lyme

** TOREAD Figoni, J., Chirouze, C., Hansmann, Y., Lemogne, C., Hentgen,
V., Saunier, A., Bouiller, K., ... (2019): Lyme borreliosis and other
tick-borne diseases. guidelines from the french scientific societies
(i): prevention, epidemiology, diagnosis infectious
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-figoni-j.-chirouze-c.-hansmann-y.-lemogne-c.-hentgen-v.-saunier-a.-bouiller-k.-2019-lyme-borreliosis-and-other-tick-borne-diseases.-guidelines-from-the-french-scientific-societies-i-prevention-epidemiology-diagnosis-infectious
   :END:

Dernières recos sur Lyme

** TOREAD Khuong, T. M., Wang, Q., Manion, J., Oyston, L. J., Lau, M.,
Towler, H., Lin, Y. Q., ... (2019): Nerve injury drives a heightened
state of vigilance and neuropathic sensitization in drosophila :animals
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-khuong-t.-m.-wang-q.-manion-j.-oyston-l.-j.-lau-m.-towler-h.-lin-y.-q.-2019-nerve-injury-drives-a-heightened-state-of-vigilance-and-neuropathic-sensitization-in-drosophila-animals
   :END:

- :PROPERTIES:
- :Custom_{ID}: khuong19_{nerveinjurdrivesheighstate}
- :END:

** TOREAD Goupil, B., Fr\'ed\'eric Balusson, Naudet, F., Esvan, M.,
Bastian, B., Chapron, A., & Frouard, P. (2019): Association between
gifts from pharmaceutical companies to french general practitioners and
their drug prescribing patterns in 2016: retrospective study using the
french transparency in healthcare and national health data system
databases medecine:
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-goupil-b.-frederic-balusson-naudet-f.-esvan-m.-bastian-b.-chapron-a.-frouard-p.-2019-association-between-gifts-from-pharmaceutical-companies-to-french-general-practitioners-and-their-drug-prescribing-patterns-in-2016-retrospective-study-using-the-french-transparency-in-healthcare-and-national-health-data-system-databases-medecine
   :END:

** DONE Doremalen, N. v., Bushmaker, T., Morris, D. H., Holbrook, M. G.,
Gamble, A., Williamson, B. N., Tamin, A., ... (2020): Aerosol and
surface stability of sars-cov-2 as compared with sars-cov-1
infectious covid19
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: done-doremalen-n.-v.-bushmaker-t.-morris-d.-h.-holbrook-m.-g.-gamble-a.-williamson-b.-n.-tamin-a.-2020-aerosol-and-surface-stability-of-sars-cov-2-as-compared-with-sars-cov-1-infectious-covid19
   :END:

Viability : plastic + stainless steel = 72h, cardboard = 48h

** DONE Poon, L. C., & Nicolaides, K. H. (2014): First-trimester
maternal factors and biomarker screening for preeclampsia gyneco
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: done-poon-l.-c.-nicolaides-k.-h.-2014-first-trimester-maternal-factors-and-biomarker-screening-for-preeclampsia-gyneco
   :END:

- Facteurs de risques : ne sont pas les même pour la prééclampsie < 34SG
  et > 34SG (maladies différentes ?)
- Ce qui est utilisé actuellement pour prédire la prééclampsie avant
  34SG et qui marche bien :

  - maternal demographic characteristics,
  - uterine artery pulsatility index (PI)
  - mean arterial pressure (MAP)
  - maternal serum pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) =>
    intervient dans la croissance du placenta => risque de prééclampsie
    si bas
  - placental growth factor (PlGF) => intervient dans l'angiogenèse =>
    risque de prééclampsie si bas

- Tension: une étude a montré que la MAP est meilleure pour prédire la
  prééclampsie que la pression systolique/diastolique
- Uterine artery pulsatility index (PI) : si augmenté, la perfusion du
  placenta est sous-optimale => risque de prééclampsie. NB: association
  significative avec la MAP
- Quand dépister ? Les auteurs suggèrent :

  - à 11-13 semaines pour aspirine si besoin
  - à 30-33 SG pour délivrance si besoin

* Other
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: other
  :END:

** SKIMMED Hausfather, Z., Drake, H. F., Abbott, T., & Schmidt, G. A.
(2019): Evaluating the performance of past climate model projections
climate
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: skimmed-hausfather-z.-drake-h.-f.-abbott-t.-schmidt-g.-a.-2019-evaluating-the-performance-of-past-climate-model-projections-climate
   :END:

Comparaison de modèles de climat contre des observations pour la
température moyenne : même des vieux modèles des années 70 sont précis.

** TOREAD Keehn, R. J. J., Iversen, J. R., Schulz, I., & Patel, A. D.
(2019): Spontaneity and diversity of movement to music are not uniquely
human animals:
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-keehn-r.-j.-j.-iversen-j.-r.-schulz-i.-patel-a.-d.-2019-spontaneity-and-diversity-of-movement-to-music-are-not-uniquely-human-animals
   :END:

** SKIMMED Mueller, P. A., & Oppenheimer, D. M. (2014): The pen is
mightier than the keyboard
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: skimmed-mueller-p.-a.-oppenheimer-d.-m.-2014-the-pen-is-mightier-than-the-keyboard
   :END:

Notes papier + études > notes sans étude, PC avec étude et PC sans
études Mais ça ne montre pas que les notes PC sont moins bonnes ? Par
contre, les notes sous PC sont plus copiés-collées donc moins de
réflexion

** TOREAD Steffen, J. H., & Hotchkiss, J. (2012): Experimental test of
airplane boarding methods
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: toread-steffen-j.-h.-hotchkiss-j.-2012-experimental-test-of-airplane-boarding-methods
   :END:

** SKIMMED Dunson, D. B. (2002): Changes with age in the level and
duration of fertility in the menstrual cycle gyneco
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: skimmed-dunson-d.-b.-2002-changes-with-age-in-the-level-and-duration-of-fertility-in-the-menstrual-cycle-gyneco
   :END:

Donne une idée de la baisse de la fertilité après 35 ans (-50% ??). Mais
ils mentionnent un grand intervalle interquatile... Sur la figure : ~50%
-> ~30%

** SKIMMED Gnoth, C. (2003): Time to pregnancy: results of the german
prospective study and impact on the management of infertility gyneco
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: skimmed-gnoth-c.-2003-time-to-pregnancy-results-of-the-german-prospective-study-and-impact-on-the-management-of-infertility-gyneco
   :END:

Donne une idée du temps pour concevoir : 92% au bout de 12 cycles pour
tous les couples de l'étude.

Sensitivity of RT-PCR on swab = 71% vs 98 for chest CT-scan (51
patients)
